# Example datasets

We will be using data from two [OpenFMRI] projects {{ -- }} `ds114` and
`ds107`.   Data from both projects are covered by a Public Domain Dedication
and License version 1.0 ([PDDL 1.0]).

## Dataset ds114

We make most use of some files from the [ds114 dataset].

The cited article for this study is:

<http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3641991>

There are more details of the analysis in:

<http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23153967>

In particular, we will be using the data from the covert verb generation task.
Here is the description from the second (NeuroImage) paper linked above:

> Subjects were asked to think of a verb complementing a noun presented to
> them visually. The following instructions were used: "When a word appears
> it will be a noun. Think of what you can do with it and then imagine
> saying ‘With that I can …’ or ‘That I can …’ ". A block design with 30 s
> activation and 30 s rest blocks was employed, with eight trials used for
> training. During the activation blocks, ten nouns were presented for 1 s
> each followed by a fixation cross during which subject had to generate the
> response. The nouns were chosen at random from a set of 70 nouns (mean
> lexical frequency: 0.000087, min: 0.000005, max: 0.000392, std: 0.000092).
> Rest blocks had an analogous structure but with each word replaced by
> scrambled visual patterns generated by scrambling the phase of the
> ‘picture’ of each word, i.e. the control patterns were matched in the
> amplitude spectrum. Seven activation/rest blocks were presented for a
> total scan time of 7 min 12.5 s.

There are more acquisition parameters listed at
<http://gigascience.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/2047-217X-2-6#Tab1>

The analysis scripts are available at:
<https://github.com/chrisfilo/2010-Reliability-Study>

From the links above, for the covert verb generation task:

- GE Signa 1.5T scanner
- EPI (functional images)
  : - TR = 2.5 s
    - TE = 50 ms
    - FOV = 256 x 256 mm
    - matrix = 64 × 64
    - 4 x 4 x 4 mm voxel size
    - 0 slice gap
    - 173 volumes per run
    - 'Interleaved' slice timing acquisition order
- 3D Inversion Recovery Prepared (anatomical images)
  : - TR = 10 s
    - TE = 4 s
    - 1 x 1 x 1.3 mm voxel size
    - 0 slice gap

The original analysis assumed ascending interleaved slice acquisition order -
see [the analysis script](https://github.com/chrisfilo/2010-Reliability-Study/blob/master/src/helper_functions.py#L35).

The original analysis dropped 4 dummy scans from the functional runs before
continuing the analysis.

The onset times in the OpenFMRI model specification files almost certainly
take time = 0 to be the beginning of the first dummy scan.

## Dataset ds107

We will also be using data from the [ds107 dataset].

Here is the article describing dataset and analysis:

<http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2686646/>

From the methods section of that article, we find these bits of information:

- Siemens 1.5 T MR scanner
- EPI (functional images)
  : - TR = 3000 ms
    - TE = 50 ms
    - FOV = 192 × 192
    - matrix = 64 × 64
    - "notional resolution" 3 × 3 × 3 mm
    - 164 volumes per run
- T1 FLASH (anatomical images)
  : - TR = 12 ms
    - TE = 5.6 ms
    - 1 mm3 resolution

### Missing information

At least - I couldn't find this information at a quick scan - please correct
me if I'm wrong:

- slice order (are they interleaved? sequential?);
- volume gap in time (any gap between the last slice from volume N and the
  first slice of volume N+1?);
- Slice width (was there a gap between the slices?).
